add getting started (#999)
emqtt/emq-docs-cn: en_US/getting-started/getting-started.md

---
# 编写日期
date: 2022-01-25 09:53:20
# 作者 Github 名称
author: wivwiv
# 关键字
keywords:
# 描述
description:
# 分类
category:
# 引用
ref:
---

# Getting Started

> Starting from download and installation, this article will guide you to get started quickly on the main functions and key features of EMQ X.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from download and installation, this article will guide you to get started quickly on the main functionalities and key features of EMQ X.
```

> Starting from download and installation, this article will guide you to get started quickly on the main functionalities and key features of EMQ X.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting from download and installation, this article will get you up to speed on the main functionalities and key features of EMQ X.
```

Reviewer 2: > main functionalities and key features

These are more or less the same thing? Maybe leave only "key features"?

Author: 1. `article -> section`：Not a standalone article, just a chapter in the entire document
2. There is no detailed introduction to the functions and features of EMQ X, just the basic installation and use of the quick start tutorial.

### zh
本章节将指导您从下载安装开始，快速开始使用 EMQ X。

### en
Starting from download and installation, this section will take you to quickly get started with EMQ X.

@zmstone Take a look at zh -> en retranslate

## Select EMQ X Version

> EMQ X provides both open-source version and Enterprise version for download and installation, as well as the fully managed MQTT cloud service EMQ X Cloud. You can choose the appropriate deployment method and get started quickly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EMQ X as a software is released in two different editions Community and Enterprise for download and installation. EMQ as a company offers fully managed MQTT cloud service EMQ X Cloud which runs EMQX Enterprise edition. You can choose whichever deployment that suits your business development plans the best and get started quickly.
```

:::: tabs type:card

> ::: tab EMQ X Broker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: tab EMQ X Community Edition 
```

> EMQ X as a software is released in two different editions Community and Enterprise for download and installation. EMQ as a company offers fully managed MQTT cloud service EMQ X Cloud which runs EMQX Enterprise edition. You can choose whichever deployment that suits your business development plans the best and get started quickly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
EMQ X as a software is released in two different editions: Community and Enterprise. EMQ as a company offers a fully managed MQTT cloud service [EMQ X Cloud](https://www.emqx.com/en/try?product=cloud) which runs EMQ X Enterprise edition. You can customize the deployment to suit your business development plans the best and get started quickly.
```

> The world's most scalable distributed MQTT broker with a high-performance real-time message processing engine, powering event streaming for IoT devices at a massive scale.

Reviewer 2: Nit: "most scalable ... at a massive scale" is telling the same thing twice.

Author: Here is the content of the product description quoted from the website:
[https://www.emqx.io/](https://www.emqx.io/)

I feel like it should be consistent, but I'm not sure if the text on the site is correct, here's my understanding:

- most scalable: EMQ X is the most scalable.
- massive scale: The amount of device access for IoT projects is very large.

- Fully open-sourced under APL 2.0
- MQTT 3.1.1 and MQTT 5.0 spec

> - High available, masterless clustering

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Highly available, masterless clustering
```

Author: @CrazyWisdom 
Sync changes to the website?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25006774/151095084-9ad3414b-c24c-4652-bb29-e6f8af10e561.png)

- High concurrency with low latency
- Extensible gateways and plugins

[Download](https://www.emqx.com/en/try?product=broker)
:::

::: tab EMQ X Cloud

> Connecting your IoT devices to everything with reliable, real-time IoT data movement, processing, and integration. Accelerating your IoT application development without the burden of managing the infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connecting your IoT devices to everything with reliable, real-time IoT data transport, processing, and integration. Accelerating your IoT application development without the burden of self-managing the infrastructure.
```

- Fully managed MQTT 5.0 service
- Powerful SQL-based rule engine
- Integration with various databases
- Highly available, fault-tolerant
- Run anywhere, pay as you go

[Get Started Free](https://www.emqx.com/en/try?product=cloud)
:::

> ::: tab EMQ X Enterprise

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: tab EMQ X Enterprise Edition 
```

> The world’s leading **Cloud-Native IoT Messaging Platform** with an all-in-one distributed MQTT broker and SQL-based IoT rule engine, powering high-performance, reliable data movement, processing, and integration for business-critical IoT solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The world’s leading **Cloud-Native IoT Messaging Platform** with an all-in-one distributed MQTT broker and SQL-based IoT rule engine, powering high-performance, reliable data transport, processing, and integration for business-critical IoT solutions.
```

> - Multiple IoT protocols support

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Support for multiple IoT protocols
```
?

Author: @CrazyWisdom 
Sync changes to website?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25006774/151095084-9ad3414b-c24c-4652-bb29-e6f8af10e561.png)

- Powerful SQL-based rule engine
- Data persistence and bridging
- Management & monitoring center
- Global technical support team

[Try Free](https://www.emqx.com/en/try?product=enterprise)
:::

::::

## Install EMQ X

### Deploy in EMQ X Cloud

> EMQ X Cloud is the first fully managed MQTT 5.0 public cloud service in the world. With the support of EMQ X Cloud, you can create an EMQ X cluster on the cloud and use all the features of EMQ X Enterprise. This allows you to spend more time on business connections and less time for EMQ X operation, maintenance, and management.

Reviewer 2: > With the support of EMQ X Cloud,
> you can create an EMQ X cluster on the cloud

Redundant phrasing: EMQ X Cloud implies that the cluster will be created on the cloud. Also "you can create" -> "we will create ... for you", perhaps?

- [Create and login EMQ X cloud account](https://docs.emqx.com/en/cloud/latest/quick_start/introduction.html)
- [Create a free trial deployment](https://docs.emqx.com/en/cloud/latest/quick_start/create_free_trial.html)

> ### Install EMQ X using Docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Running EMQ X in containers
```

> EMQ X provides a container image, and you can learn more about the image on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/emqx/emqx). Container deployment is one of the ways you can quickly start to experience EMQ X products.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more about the docker image on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/emqx/emqx). Container deployment is one of the ways you can quickly start to experiment with EMQ X
```

> Learn more about the docker image on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/emqx/emqx). Container deployment is one of the ways you can quickly start to experiment with EMQ X

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn more about the docker image on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/emqx/emqx). Container deployment is the quickest way to start experimenting with EMQ X
```

1. Get the Docker image

```bash
docker pull emqx/emqx:latest
```

1. Start Docker container

```bash
docker run -d --name emqx -p 1883:1883 -p 8081:8081 -p 8083:8083 -p 8084:8084 -p 8883:8883 -p 18083:18083 emqx/emqx:latest
```

For more information about Docker installation and building a cluster quickly with Docker Compose, please refer to [Running with Docker (including a simple docker-compose cluster)](./install.md#install-emq-x-in-docker-contain-a-simple-docker-compose-cluster).

### Install EMQ X on Kubernetes

For users using Kubernetes, EMQ X provides [EMQ X Kubernetes Operator](https://www.emqx.com/en/emqx-kubernetes-operator). This Operator can help you quickly deploy an EMQ X cluster with complete functions that can be used in a production environment in Kubernetes environment.

> EMQ X Kubernetes Operator is an application orchestration tool developed based on Kubernetes native API, which is used for automatic deployment and lifecycle management of EMQ X clusters. You can refer to the [documentation](https://github.com/emqx/emqx-operator/blob/main/docs/user-guides/get-started.md) of the EMQ X Kubernetes Operator to learn how to deploy EMQ X using the Operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
EMQ X Kubernetes Operator is an application orchestration tool based on Kubernetes native API, which is used for automatic deployment and lifecycle management of EMQ X clusters. You can refer to the [documentation](https://github.com/emqx/emqx-operator/blob/main/docs/user-guides/get-started.md) to learn how to deploy EMQ X using the Operator.
```

Some redundancy can be removed here

### Install EMQ X on Terraform

Deploy all infrastructure including EMQ X Enterprise clusters on the mainstream public cloud with one click through Terraform. The fastest way to deploy EMQ X Enterprise clusters on the public cloud：

- [Deploy on AWS](https://github.com/emqx/tf-aws)
- [Deploy on Alibaba Cloud](https://github.com/emqx/tf-alicloud)

For more information about Terraform installation and deployment, please refer to [EMQ X Terraform](https://www.emqx.com/en/emqx-terraform) .

### Run in a virtual machine or physical machine

> EMQ X Enterprise can be directly deployed on bare metal servers or virtual machines. A minimum of 2 core and 4GB machine can run the EMQ X Enterprise. It can support CentOS/Debian/Ubuntu/MacOS operating systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
EMQ X Enterprise can be deployed directly to bare metal servers or virtual machines. A minimum of 2 core and 4GB machine can run the EMQ X Enterprise. It can support CentOS/Debian/Ubuntu/MacOS operating systems.
```
?

- [Shell script one-click installation (Linux)](./install.md#one-click-installation-of-shell-script-linux)
- [CentOS installation](./install.md#centos)
- [Ubuntu, Debian installation](./install.md#ubuntu-debian)
- [MacOS, Windows, Linux ZIP installation](./install.md#zip-linux、maxos、windows)

If you need FreeBSD, other hardware platforms or other Linux distribution installation packages, you can refer to [source code compilation and installation](./install.md#source-code-compilation-and-installation) or [contact us](https://www.emqx.com/en/contact) for support.

## Start EMQ X

> After the installation, you can start EMQ X through the command of systemctl or emqx. For more startup methods and precautions, please refer to [Starting EMQ X](./start .md).

Reviewer 3: `./start .md` -> `./start.md`

> After the installation, you can start EMQ X through the command of systemctl or emqx. For more startup methods and precautions, please refer to [Starting EMQ X](./start.md).

Reviewer 2: precautions?

Author: Users may encounter problems such as dependent libraries, port usage, permissions, etc.

After EMQ X is started successfully, you can visit [http://localhost:18083/](http://localhost:18083/) (replace localhost with your actual IP address) through a browser to access [EMQ X Dashboard](./dashboard.html) management console for device connection and related indicator monitoring and management.

### Start EMQ X in the background

```bash
emqx start
```

> After the startup is successful, you can use the emqx ping command to check the running status of the node. If pong is returned, it means the running status is OK:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the startup is successful, you can use the `emqx ping` command to check the running status of the node. If pong is returned, it means the running status is OK:
```
